https://medium.com/@michaelswengel/linux-has-been-hacked-but-im-not-worried-95b8976e42c4

Linux Has Been Hacked! (But I’m Not Worried)
You do need to do one thing though
Michael Swengel
Michael Swengel

Follow
7 min read
·
3 days ago
119


2





Press enter or click to view image in full size

Photo by Towfiqu barbhuiya on Unsplash
No operating system is completely immune from security threats. Not Windows. Not macOS. And not even Linux. Security vulnerabilities can go unknown and unpatched for months or even years.

The last few weeks have proven that in the worst way.

At least three major zero-day vulnerabilities have been discovered in the Linux kernel since April, sending shivers down the spine of every cybersecurity professional. If exploited, these vulnerabilities could be very, very bad.

But for you and me, realistically, there’s nothing to worry about. Yes, the news is scary, but the risk to you and me is low.

Here’s what the security threats mean for us and what we can do about it.

Copy Fail, Dirty Frag and Fragnesia
In late April, a severe vulnerability was discovered in the Linux kernel. It was given the cozy name, “Copy Fail.” (CVE-2026–31431)

Not long after, it was followed by another vulnerability: “Dirty Frag.” (CVE-2026–43284 and CVE-2026–43500)

And just recently, another: “Fragnesia.” (CVE-2026–46300).

These three security threats are critical because they can give an attacker root, or admin, access to nearly any Linux system deployed since 2017.

With root access, an attacker can steal data, install malware, change passwords, or do all sorts of nasty things.

Think of it like leaving the keys to your house in the lock as you run errands. Anyone can get in and do who knows what, even watch reruns of the Simpsons.

Terrifying.

How the attacks work
While the three attacks work a bit differently, the concept behind each is the same. Once an attacker has access to a system, either in person or remotely, he exploits one of these vulnerabilities to give himself root privileges. At that point, he can do literally anything.

Change settings. Install malware. Steal data. Breach other systems. Not great.

That’s the concerning bit.

But here’s the important part to remember if you’re worried. 👇

How concerned should we be, realistically?
These vulnerabilities, while very serious, aren’t likely to be major threats for you and me. They’re classified as Local Privilege Escalation (or LPE) threats. A bad guy can’t simply attack a random Linux machine on the Internet with one of these threats alone.

He has to already have access to the system, either physically or remotely.

If a bad guy can’t already access your Linux system, he can’t exploit Copy Fail, Dirty Frag or Fragnesia. That’s the good news.

What can you do to reduce the odds that someone could get access to your system?

Keep your computer up to date. Don’t download and run software you don’t trust. And don’t click on links you don’t recognize. Never connect to public Wi-Fi. (Seriously. Connecting to public, unencrypted Wi-Fi is like eating out of a dumpster but for your computer. Unsafe and gross. Don’t do that.)

Realistically, that reduces your potential attack surface by orders of magnitude.

But also remember, attackers are more likely to target the big fish than they are to target you and me. Institutions, businesses, that sort of thing. They don’t care about your folder of crochet pattern bookmarks.

That doesn’t mean we should be complacent though. Combined with other possible vulnerabilities, maybe even some that haven’t yet been disclosed, Copy Fail, Dirty Frag or Fragnesia could still be bad news.

So personally, I classify my level of concern as “concerned enough to update my Linux systems. Not concerned enough to worry about it.”

What can we do?
The best and perhaps most obvious fix? Update your system and stay up to date.

Major distributions have already released fixes for Copy Fail, Dirty Frag or Fragnesia, and if you’ve installed those patches, you’re good to go. There’s nothing more you need to do.

Seriously. That’s it.

Press enter or click to view image in full size

Installing updates in Fedora 44. Screenshot provided by the author.
If you’ve been reading the news about these vulnerabilities and worrying about your Linux laptop, relax. It’s fine. Just install all the updates that are available, and go about your day.

However, if you’re still on an old version of your favorite distro, this is your sign to upgrade. Like today. I like playing with older versions of Linux for nostalgia too, but unless they’re still getting updates, they’re not safe from these vulnerabilities. Update or move to something else pronto.

Older distro releases have older kernel versions and may not have the updates that patch Copy Fail, Dirty Frag and Fragnesia, leaving your system potentially vulnerable.

Just the other day I came across a post by a guy asking for help with an old version of Ubuntu. A version that is EIGHT major releases behind. At that point, it’s time to upgrade. You’ll get newer bug fixes, newer software, and patches for vulnerabilities like these.

Bottom line, stay up to date. Don’t be stupid with your computer. It’ll be fine.

Any system can be breached
That said, there is one thing I think these vulnerabilities ought to show us: no system is completely safe from attack.

Working in IT for as long as I have, I have come to appreciate the fact that macOS and Linux are less likely to be attacked than a Windows system. Windows is, after all, the desktop operating system with the largest market share and therefore the operating system most likely to be attacked by bad guys.

But even macOS and Linux can be compromised. Apple does a pretty good job of keeping macOS up to date on supported hardware. Linux updates fall to the various distributions.

Press enter or click to view image in full size

Screenshot provided by the author.
One of the benefits of Linux being open source is the fact that issues like Copy Fail, Dirty Frag, and Fragnesia can be patched quickly, in the open, with a massive community of developers working together. And those fixes can be easily propagated to all the various distros quickly.

Just don’t take that sort of thing for granted.

Especially as AI becomes more advanced and is used more and more in the cybersecurity space, I suspect we’ll learn of even more security flaws in each of the major operating systems that we don’t know about today. That’s one of the good and scary uses for AI, I suppose.

It’s not fun to hear about security holes and zero day exploits, but I’d rather they be found so they can be patched.

No matter what operating system you use or how you use it, be smart. Don’t click strange links. Be careful about what sites you visit. And never open anything you don’t recognize.

Even on Linux.

Do I still recommend Linux?
Over the past half a year, I’ve been using Linux more and more. I replaced Windows on my 3D rendering computers and use it for writing, design, and even gaming.

I think any time news about a security vulnerability hits the news, it’s easy to wonder if your OS of choice is safe to use.

If you remember a few years ago, it was discovered that several versions of Apple Silicon have an unpatchable security flaw (GoFetch) that could potentially allow an attacker to infer cryptographic keys with time. Then there were SLAP & FLOP, which could allow an attacker to trick a processor into using out-of-bounds memory to get to private data.

These are hardware based flaws that can’t be patched with software. Concerning? Yes. Realistically a threat to the vast majority of people? No. My own M3 Pro MacBook Pro is one of those affected. Do I care? No.

And so it is with Copy Fail, Dirty Frag and Fragnesia. These, thankfully, are not hardware based flaws and can easily be patched with a quick update. But the principle remains the same.

The realistic risk to the vast majority of us is zero. In order to exploit these flaws, someone has to already have access to your Linux system. At that point, you have other issues to worry about. And patches have already been released via updates. As long as you’re updating regularly, you’re just fine.

But if you haven’t updated recently, now is the time to check.

So yes. I do very much still enjoy and recommend Linux. Currently, I’m using Fedora (having recently switched from Ubuntu), and am very much enjoying it.

Linux has given me a sense of freedom and control of my computer that Windows never did. I don’t have to worry about Microsoft’s constant telemetry, bloat, forced AI slop, or that sort of thing. And I don’t have to wonder what this month’s series of updates will break.

It’s a peaceful life.

